# Exercise Set 13: Modules and Data structures

*CSci 2041: Advanced Programming Principles, Fall 2017 (Afternoons)*

**Due:** Monday, December 4 at 11:59am

## 1. Doubly-linked lists

The file `dllist.ml` contains a type definition for doubly-linked lists: a `'a dlink` record holds a `'a` value `v`, and a pointer to the `next` and `prev` links of the list.  A `'a dl` is either a link record or `End`; a `'a dlist` holds references to the first and last `'a dl` links in the list (the empty list is thus represented by `List (ref End, ref End)`).  Add implementations for the following functions:

+ `snoc : 'a dlist -> 'a -> unit` destructivley modifies its first argument to add its second to the end of the list. So for example `let x = empty () in snoc x 0; snoc x 1; list_of_dlist x` should evaluate to `[0; 1]` and `let x = empty () in snoc x 17; snoc x (-1); list_of_dlist x` should evaluate to `[17; -1]`.


+ `remove : 'a -> 'a dlist -> unit` destructively removes the first instance of its first argument from the second.  If no instance of the value is found, no change is made to the list.  For example: `let x = empty () in snoc x 0; snoc x 1; snoc x 2; remove 1 x; list_of_dlist x` should evaluate to `[0;2]` and `let x = empty () in snoc x 0; remove 1 x; list_of_dlist x` should evaluate to `[0]`.

+ `fold : ('a -> 'b -> 'a) -> 'a -> 'b dlist -> 'a` performs fold_left but for a `dlist` instead of a regular `list`.  So for example: `let l = empty () in snoc l 1; snoc l 2; snoc l 4; fold (+) 0 l` should evaluate to `7` and `let l = empty () in snoc l "a"; snoc l "b"; snoc l "c"; fold (fun acc s -> s::acc) [] l` should evaluate to `["c"; "b"; "a"]`.

+ `reduce : ('a -> 'b -> 'b) -> 'a dlist -> 'b -> 'b` performs reduce (fold_right) for for a `dlist` instead of a regular list.
Notice that this can be naturally tail-recursive with doubly-linked lists!  For example: `let l = empty () in snoc l "a"; snoc l "good"; snoc l "day"; reduce (fun h r -> h::r) l []` should evaluate to `["a"; "good"; "day"]`, and `let l = empty() in snoc l 2; snoc l 3; snoc l 5; reduce ( * ) l 1` should evaluate to `30`.

+ `pop_front : 'a dlist -> unit` should remove the first link of its argument (or have no effect if the list is already empty).  So `let l = empty () in snoc l "a"; snoc l "b"; pop_front l; list_of_dlist l` should evaluate to `["b"]`, and `let l = empty () in snoc l 0; pop_front l; l` should equal `List (ref End, ref End)`.

+ `pop_rear : 'a dlist -> unit` should remove the last link of its argument (or have no effect if the list is already empty).  So `let l = empty () in snoc l "oh"; snoc l "no"; pop_rear l; list_of_dlist l` should evaluate to `["oh"]`, and `let l = empty () in pop_rear l; list_of_dlist l` should evaluate to `[]`.

### Test cases

There are two examples for each function.  To get full credit your solution should match at least 9/12 example evaluations.

## 2. Modules and Interfaces

The `ex13` directory contains three set implementations:
* `listSet.ml`
* `hashSet.ml`
* `funSet.ml`

and three interface files:
* `sset.mli`
* `rset.mli`
* `fset.mli`

For each implementation/interface pair below explain whether the pair are compatible, and if they are not, why?

1. `listSet.ml : sset.mli`

2. `hashSet.ml : sset.mli`

3. `funSet.ml : sset.mli`

4. `listSet.ml : rset.mli`

5. `hashSet.ml : rset.mli`

6. `funSet.ml : rset.mli`

7. `listSet.ml : fset.mli`

8. `hashSet.ml : fset.mli`

9. `funSet.ml : fset.mli`

### Answer format
Recored your answers in a markdown list in the file `module-interface.md` as follows:
```
1. `listSet.ml : sset.mli`
> Legal
>> listSet provides all types and values in the sset signature
```
For full credit, you should correctly answer at least 7/9 cases.

## 3.  Structs, Signatures, and Sharing

For each of the following OCaml expressions, state whether it is a legal program or not, and explain why:

1. ```
    module A : sig
        val x : string
    end = struct
        let x = 7
    end
    ```
2. ```
    module B : sig
      val b : string
      val b : string
    end = struct
      let b = "b"
    end
    ```
3. ``module c = struct let c=1 end``

4. ```
    module D : sig
      val f : int -> int
      val g : int list -> int list
    end = struct
      let g x = x
      let f x = g x
    end
    ```
5. ``let module E = struct let e=1 end in E.e``

6. ```
    let module F : sig
      type t
      val f : t -> t
    end = struct
      type t = int
      let f x = x+1
    end in F.f
    ```

7. ```
    module type GaSig = sig type t end
    module type GbSig = sig val x : int end
    module Ga : GaSig with type t = int = struct
      type t = int
    end
    module Gb : GbSig = struct
      let x = 1
    end
    module Gc : sig
      include GaSig
      val x : t
    end = struct
      include Ga
      include Gb
    end
    ```

8. ```
    module type HSig = sig
      type 'a t
      val f : 'a t -> unit
    end
    let module H : HSig with type 'a t = 'a list = struct
      let rec f = function [] -> ()
      | h::t -> f t
    end in H.f [1;2]
    ```

### Answer format

Record your answers in the file `modules.md` in a markdown list using the format
```
1. `module A`
> Not Legal
>> The value `x` has mismatched types in the signature and struct
```
To get full credit, your solution must be correct for at least 6/8 of the programs.
